---
title: How to make profit from cryptocurrencies
date: 2022-01-20T01:15:06.966Z
featuredImage: assets/bitcoin.jpg
---
Clickbait, that's just clickbait. But while you're here, let me tell you that I also care about the "number go up" phenomenon. I'm not a rich guy, and my country isn't really the best to live just off your work. Unfortunately work simply isn't enough for most people in Portugal. So, in this post, I'll give you some hints on how to profit from cryptocurrencies.

<!-- end -->

First of all, you shouldn't expect to profit from cryptocurrencies. The ones that matter weren't really made to increase in value, but some of them were designed to have a limited supply. Now, things increase in price when more and more people want them, that's how stuff works. And that's why you _may_ profit, as the crypto space becomes more and more prominent in our digital lives and more people buy and sell them. 

If you want a steady income or a guaranteed profit, **don't buy cryptocurrencies**. However, it's a fun investment specially if you like tech, and there's a chance you can make some money out of it. If you spend wisely, you may get some returns. Let's move on:

1. What is a bad investment, when you are the absolute worst managing your money? So start there. Make a sober, realistic approach to your finances, your incomes and outcomes. If you don't know how much you spent in coffee the last month, you still don't have a clue on what reality looks like to you. There is some software to help you, for example [Budget With Buckets](https://www.budgetwithbuckets.com/).
2. Assuming you spend everything you earn, you have to take money from somewhere. I don't know you, but I know that money started showing up on my wallet when I started tracking my finances. It was a bit like magic, but awareness really makes a difference in personal finances. Anyway, stop buying dumb shit, quit smoking, unsubscribe netflix... My point is, **buy crypto with money you can afford to lose**. Treat it like you're paying a parking fine or something.
>  If you buy the lottery, make a sober assessment on your chances of winning something. Some people think they're crypto experts when it comes to Bitcoin, but usually those are the ones that say the difference between 0.000000000% and 0.0000000007% is worth their weekly 2.5€ because "there's a chance of winning". **_There isn't_** <sub><sup>,almost</sub></sup>. Stop doing that. That's 140€ per year. What will happen if you lose 140€ in crypto? Exactly the same as what will happen if you use it in lottery tickets: **_nothing_**. You will never win.
3. Now that you have some cash to spend, don't spend it. Save some for an emergency. But assuming you also have some for an emergency, you should have some extra 10€ or 20€. That's actually a good amount to start, as you'll get more and more experienced and you learn more and more about cryptocurrencies. Even if you have a lot of money to spend, spread it over several weeks/months.
4. Create an account on an exchange. There are _a lot_ of them, but choose wisely. You'll have to give some pretty uncomfortable details, like your ID card, etc. Also, they'll keep your money and there's no guarantee they'll give it back. I'll tell you the one I use, and that's Coinbase. [Here's a referral link if you want some extra money after you purchase 100$ or something](coinbase.com/join/sousa_oi?src=android-link). I'm not vouching for them, but being a publicly traded company I tend to trust it a little bit more than the others like Binance or Crypto (dot) com. You don't need to trust exchanges with a lot of money, as you can later withdraw your cryptocurrencies into your own wallet, with your own keys, etc. I'll talk about it later, one day.
5. Use whatever means your exchange gives you to deposit your euros or dollars. You will eventually have some credit there and you can convert it to some cryptocurrency. Now here's the million dollar question... **Which cryptocurrency**?
6. I don't give financial advice. This is not financial advice. Some people buy specific coins to make them feel part of a meme community (for example the Dogecoin community). Some people search for quick _pump and dump_ coins. Some people like to buy coins that can be staked (sort of "locked") for some yearly interest. I personally look for coins that are used in projects that I believe make the difference in the blockchain world, which also means they make a difference in the world we live in. Buying these coins means you vouch for the project, while you help them increase in value. Usually the teams behind the project have a lot of coins stashed, waiting to be sold one day to hire developers for the project (like me!).
7. Read stuff, listen to podcasts, watch youtube videos, etc. But mind this: the more you trust a specific channel or website, the more biased you are towards certain projects. Usually people recommend the coins they own, for the very same reason they own them in the first place. So, diversify your source of information, and continuously look for new channels, new twitter or reddit pages, new podcasts. You will reach some conclusions on your own.
8. Also, always be a critic of your own investments. Be in touch with those coin's project's pages and news. Maybe a project that was great some years ago is now a defunct piece of software with little use, and that's just how tech works. 