blog/how-blockchain-can-stop-the-war.md, before:

---
title: How blockchain can stop the war
date: 2022-02-26T17:34:52.910Z
featuredImage: assets/a-new-opportunity.jpg
---
Blockchain isn't really a political thing. And that's for a reason: it trusts in maths and economics, and not really in people. The whole idea of blockchain is removing trust from some equations envolving sensitive data and peoeple.

Given the war in Ukraine, if you're Russian, you should know that your taxes are being used to fund unjustified military incursions that bring terror to millions. I believe most of you agree that this is now where you thought your money was being applied.

So, how can blockchain stop this? I don't have an answer but I have some ideas to think about:

## The first casualty of war is truth

This old adage is more true than ever, at the present day. If you're like me and you're not a geopolitical expert, and if you dig a little bit, you can find sources of _truth_ on what exacly was Ukraine doing in the separatist states. You can also find _truth_ in where that's not really the case. Misinformation is the cancer of the XXI century, and there's no way of knowing where exactly does information come from. Ultimately, it always depends on what sources do you trust. If you trust the Russian channels, you hear one thing. If you trust western channels, you hear another.

Blockchain has some potential of removing some of this trust, leaving only the raw data. If information enters the blockchain as soon as possible to the source, there's less space for manipulation, and everyone absolutely needs to trust it.

Let's say that there's an explosion in an hospital in Kyiv. Authorities could go there, gather evidences, and in an ideal world, have a way to immediately convey it to a distributed trustless database like an Ethereum smart contract. Russian army can say one thing, and Ukraine defense can say another, but both parties would be able to convey raw data that cannot be manipulated by states and propaganda. Also, this would mean every piece of information has a timestamp and a owner, which is useful for further inquiry.

## Blockchain may be neutral. I'm not.

This quote from Vitalik says it all for me:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Reminder: Ethereum is neutral, but I am not.</p>&mdash; vitalik.eth (@VitalikButerin) <a href="https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin/status/1496695587495981056?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 24, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Blockchain doesn't magically solve _people_. What it does solve is the amount of energy needed to maintain high levels of trust in each other.

When governments started imposing sanctions to Russia, I immediately thought that blockchain could be a workaround those sanctions. Banks can have their accounts locked by the SWIFT mechanism but they can still move cryptocurrencies with ease, as they don't rely on mutual trust like SWIFT does. 

However, as a miner, I was very happy to see the mining pool Flexpool.io blocking Russian miners. They can do that, because although Ethereum is neutral... They're not. The same can happen with exchanges, refusing to cash out fiat currencies to Russian nationals. This would effectively decrease the value of cryptocurrencies in Russia since they wouldn't represent real assets for anything meaningful, although they'd still have value everywhere else.

Commit message:

Update Blog “how-blockchain-can-stop-the-war”

blog/how-blockchain-can-stop-the-war.md, after:

---
title: How identities can help the war
date: 2022-02-26T17:34:52.910Z
featuredImage: assets/1x-1.jpeg
---
Blockchain isn't really a political thing. And that's for a reason: it trusts in maths and economics, and not really in people. The whole idea of blockchain is removing trust from some equations involving sensitive data and people.

This quote from Vitalik says it all for me:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Reminder: Ethereum is neutral, but I am not.</p>&mdash; vitalik.eth (@VitalikButerin) <a href="https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin/status/1496695587495981056?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 24, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Blockchain doesn't magically solve *people*. What it does solve is the amount of effort needed to maintain high levels of trust in a society, specially when it is so polarized as ours.

## The first casualty of war is truth

This old adage is more true than ever, at the present day. Misinformation is the cancer of the XXI century, and there's no way of knowing where exactly does information come from. Ultimately, it always depends on what sources do you trust. If you trust the Russian channels, you hear one thing. If you trust western channels, you hear another.

Blockchain has some potential of removing some of this trust, leaving only the raw data. If information enters the blockchain as soon as possible to the source, there's less space for manipulation, and everyone absolutely needs to trust it.

Let's say that there's an explosion in an hospital. Witnesses could go there, gather evidences, and in an ideal world, have a way to immediately convey it to some trustless storage. Russian army can say one thing, and Ukraine defense can say another, but both parties would be able to convey raw data that cannot be manipulated by states and propaganda. Also, this would mean every piece of information has a timestamp and an owner, which is useful for further inquiries.

## T﻿he case for identity

I﻿f this was really that easy, it would already be used. The problem is that there is currently no way of undeniably connecting a signature with a real person. 
I﻿n other words, y﻿ou want to prove you're an NGO member and you do control an Ethereum Private Key, yet you don't want to disclose your real identity. You don't want this pseudonymous address to have anything to do with your real identity, which means 0 transactions between the two. And you want a way of being able to revocate your "NGO member" status in case your real identity becomes compromised.

L﻿et's assume I'm a western spy inside Russia's high ranks. My address is _alice.eth_ and I use this account for all kinds of things, like buying games, voting on DAOs, receiving mining rewards, etc. However, I also want to leak some information on Russia's government, yet I do not want to trust anyone to broadcast my information and, obviously, I don't want to use _alice.eth_ for that, as its funds could be easily traced back to my real identity.

W﻿hat I want is another address _thespy.eth_, that has an identity proof, say using [sismo](https://www.sismo.io/) or [iden3](https://iden3.io). This means someone has provided me with a badge (in the case of Sismo) or claim (for iden3), using whatever sources of information needed. They can prove I'm real, and that I belong to whatever western organization.

To interact with smart contracts you generally need to have some coins to pay for fees. How do you fund this without leaving a digital footprint that could potentially trace _thespy.eth_ back to _alice.eth_? One solution would be to use [Aztec](https://aztec.network), which is a company I just recently joined as a DevRel. Using zk.money, _alice.eth_ could shield some ETH, and later withdraw it to _thespy.eth_. This way, they would be keeping their privacy intact.

## More truth = Less war

I﻿f you've ever played the "phone game", you notice that any information that takes more than 2-3 "hops" very easily becomes false. Adding middleman, even if they're well-intentioned, is almost always recipe for disaster.

W﻿e want an almost direct phone line between source (the ones on the ground) and consumer (everyone else). Blockchain and zero-knowledge technology opens new opportunities for this communication to be _almost_ censorship-resistant, by hiding identities yet proving statements about their eligibility.
